During our discussion yesterday, we went into talks of what we and others can take from history/historiography, what we contribute in the grand scheme and how we should focus more on phenominom instead of narratives. I couldn't gelp but get this famous dissent from Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes out of my head, for I feel it really resonates with us for two reasons: because it involves and refelcts ideas embedded in our Constitution and sounds very similar to what we as historians are trying to accomplish. (all in my opinion of course) 

  'But when men have realized that time has upset many fighting faiths, they may come to believe even more than they believe the very foundations of their own conduct that the ultimate good desired is better reached by free trade in ideas -- that the best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market, and that truth is the only ground upon which their wishes safely can be carried out. That, at any rate, is the theory of our Constitution. It is an experiment, as all life is an experiment. Every year, if not every day, we have to wager our salvation upon some prophecy based upon imperfect knowledge." 
  
  The part which I can't ignore, is his quote,"the best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market, and that truth is the only ground upon which their wishes safely can be carried out. That, at any rate, is the theory of our Constitution. It is an experiment, as all life is an experiment." Is this not what History is? A truth seeking subject, without a bias, accepting all ideas (which rise and fall) in the market of ideals? That right there is an experiment. Trial and error. I know this is core enlightment stuff but it really sticks out for me. 
  Love to hear others' opinions! -Ryan. 
